# Multi_Cycle_CPU
Multi-Cycle CPU implemented in Verilog HDL.

  This project uses a custom ISA created by myself.Hence it has some restrictions. This restrictions and what you can achieve is well explained in the report. By opening top_module in Quartus 2, you can see the datapath and control unit. Additionally, in the Instruction/Data memory, you can see some example datapath compatible instructions which you can use. The EE446_LabWork4 report will provide the information about the datapath and control signals while EE446_LabWork5 is implementation of both datapath and control unit.
There can be some bugs since I didn't implement each instruction but some specific tasks are run on the CPU. The datapath and Controller Unit can be improved more by adding hardware compenent and some control signals in FSM. This datapath supports indirect addressing, indexing addressing,direct addressing, R-type addressing and much more. If you look at the Controller unit it will arranged so that 3 process FSM is implemented, which means 1 process changes the states with the clock pulse on the rising edge while the one process just computes the next states according to op, cmd and immediate fields for fetch, decode and execute stages. The other process is assigning the necassary control signals in each state according to the instructions. Additionally, the instruction lenght is 16 bit and I used 8 bit registers. However, I implement 32 bit instruction lengt with 32 bit register therefore the datapath is compatible with 32 bit bus lenght. However, some changes need to be made like converting ISA to 32 bit ARM set or custom one. The whole project is created by me and it is custom. If you look at the report in detail you can get the idea and increase the capability.Additionally, the results are shared in the reports through simulations.
  
  
